Jujutsu Kaisen (呪術廻戦; rgh. 'Sorcery Battle'[a]) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Gege Akutami. It was serialized in Shueisha's shōnen manga magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump from March 2018 to September 2024, with its chapters collected in 30 tankōbon volumes. The story follows high school student Yuji Itadori as he joins a secret organization of Jujutsu Sorcerers to eliminate a powerful Curse named Ryomen Sukuna, of whom Yuji becomes the host. Jujutsu Kaisen is a sequel to Akutami's Tokyo Metropolitan Curse Technical School, serialized in Shueisha's Jump Giga from April to July 2017, later collected in a single tankōbon volume, retroactively titled as Jujutsu Kaisen 0, in December 2018.

Satoru Gojo (Japanese: 五条 悟, Hepburn: Gojō Satoru) is a fictional character from Gege Akutami's manga and anime series Jujutsu Kaisen. He was first introduced in Akutami's short series Tokyo Metropolitan Curse Technical School as the mentor of the cursed teenager Yuta Okkotsu, who suffers a curse of Rika teaches him at Tokyo Prefectural Jujutsu High School. This miniseries became the prequel Jujutsu Kaisen 0 of Jujutsu Kaisen. In main series of Jujutsu Kaisen, Gojo takes the same role but mentors the student Yuji Itadori who suffers a curse of Sukuna, helping him become stronger while protecting other characters in the series.

He is voiced by Yuichi Nakamura in the original Japanese series. From serious scenes to comical gag scenes, Gojo has different facial expressions, but since Nakamura played without restrictions on the swing range, he reiterated at the recording site that he enjoyed gags. The actor did not find a change in Gojo's characterization, finding his mentoring of Yuta similar to the other protagonists from the main Jujutsu Kaisen series. He enjoyed the multiple recording sessions he had, as well as the many school-like relationships. He was impressed by Megumi Ogata's work as Yuta for providing him with a large range of emotions.[13] Mariya Ise voiced the younger Gojo in a flashback from the anime.[2] For the anime's second season Nakamura claims he suffered struggles in properly portraying Gojo due to the two story arcs depicting the same character with different quirks and personality as a result of his age; while people do not change their voices too much over a decade, Nakamura aimed to make Gojo different in the two story arcs from season 2. The voice actor was impressed by the animation studio Mappa which allowed his character to have more facial expressions which resulted in more direction from his superiors.[14]
Jujutsu Kaisen 0
A sorcerer working as a teacher at Tokyo Prefectural Jujutsu High School, he holds the self-proclaimed title 'The Strongest'; most allies and enemies alike never actually dispute the title and generally consider him to be one of the most dangerous people alive. In the events of Jujutsu Kaisen 0, Gojo recruits Yuta Okkotsu, a high school student, accompanied by his Curse Spirit, Rika Orimoto, and convinces him to join Jujutsu High. During this time, Gojo makes Yuta train with the previous year students, Panda, Maki Zenin, and Toge Inumaki, to help Yuta control his curse and develop friendships.[18] Yuta's curse attracts Suguru Geto, a previous student at Jujutsu High and an old friend of Gojo. Geto seeks Yuta's curse and wishes to create a shaman-only world. Geto is gravely injured after his fight with Okkotsu and is later executed by Gojo. Gojo then helps Yuta understand the true nature of his curse and powers.[1
